[WIP] Terraform Docs for TF policy (#2690)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets/terraform-policy-vcs.mdx

---
page_title: VCS setup for Terraform policy
description: >-
  Learn how to set up version control for Terraform policy policy sets in HCP Terraform.
---

# VCS setup for Terraform policy

> This page describes how to set up Version Control System (VCS) integration for Terraform policy policy sets in HCP Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to integrate your version control system (VCS) with HCP Terraform so that it can evaluate policies written for Terraform policy.
```

@include "beta.mdx"

## VCS repository setup

> Terraform policy supports VCS-backed policy sets containing one or more policy files (`.policy.hcl`). You can create as many policy sets as you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform policy supports VCS-backed policy sets containing one or more policy files with the `.policy.hcl` extension. You can create as many policy sets as you wish.
```

In addition to the policy files, we recommend that you include tests for your policies in the same VCS repository. If you use policy plugins to implement custom functions for your policies to use, you must also commit the plugin binary to your VCS repository.

> Your VCS repository should follow this structure:

Reviewer 2: The agent automatically picks up all .policy.hcl files in the current directory (by 'current', we mean the path specified in the policy sets page; if this path is not specified we look for .policy.hcl files in the root directory), so perhaps we can frame this as a recommendation as opposed to being a strict rule?

For example, your Terraform policy VCS repositories could follow this standard structure:

```text
./
├── policies/
│   ├── resource-tagging.policy.hcl
│   ├── security-rules.policy.hcl
│   └── naming-conventions.policy.hcl
├── tests/
│   ├── resource-tagging.policytest.hcl
│   ├── security-rules.policytest.hcl
│   └── naming-conventions.policytest.hcl
├── plugins/
│   ├── src/
│   │   └── example/
│   │       ├── main.go
│   │       ├── go.mod
│   │       └── go.sum
│   └── bin/
│       └── example
└── README.md
```

#### Terraform policy plugins

Terraform policy supports plugins that allow you to extend Terraform policy with additional functions that you can use to simplify your policy authoring experience. In order for HCP Terraform agents to execute your custom plugins, you must include a compatible binary plugin in your policy VCS repository. Refer to [Terraform policy - Policy plugins](/terraform/policy/write/plugins) for more information.

### File naming conventions

- **Policy files**: Must use `.policy.hcl` extension

> - **Test files**: Must use `.policytest.hcl` extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Policy files must have a `.policy.hcl` extension.
- Test files must have a `.policytest.hcl` extension.
```

- Use descriptive names that indicate the policy's purpose
- Keep related policies and their tests in the same VCS repository

## Policy set configuration in HCP Terraform

> In order to enforce your policies in HCP Terraform, you must first write your policies and tests, test your policies locally, and check them into your VCS repository. Then you will organize them into policy sets in HCP Terraform and configure your policy sets against the projects and workspaces you wish to enforce the policies on, or apply them to your entire organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enforce your policies in HCP Terraform, write your policies and tests, test your policies locally, and check them into your VCS repository. Then, organize the policies into sets in HCP Terraform and configure which workspaces to them to run them against.
```
Ultimately, the scope is one workspace, many workspaces, or all workspaces.

1. Sign in to HCP Terraform and navigate to your organization
2. Go to **Settings** > **Policy Sets**
3. Click **Create a new policy set**
4. Select **Terraform policy** as the policy framework

> 5. Choose **VCS** as the source

Reviewer 2: I believe we choose source before choosing the framework:
4. Choose VCS as the source
5. Select tfpolicy as the framework

1. Choose **VCS** as the source
1. Select **Terraform policy** as the policy framework
1. Connect to your VCS repository
1. Configure the policy set settings:
   - **Name**: A unique name for the policy set
   - **Description**: Describe the policy set's purpose
   - **Scope**: Choose global, project-specific, or workspace-specific

>    - **VCS Branch**: Select the branch to use (typically `main`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **VCS Branch**: Select the branch to use, usually `main`
```

>    - **Policies Path**: Specify the directory containing policy files (For example: `policies/`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Policies Path**: Specify the directory containing policy files, for example `policies/`.
```

### Policy enforcement levels

Each policy in your policy set can set its enforcement level in the policy configuration:

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_instance" "example" {

>   enforcement_level = "mandatory" # or "advisory" or "mandatory-overridable"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  enforcement_level = "mandatory" # or "advisory" or "mandatory_overridable"
```

  
  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.instance_type == "t3.micro"
    error_message = "Only t3.micro instances allowed"
  }
}
```

> Refer to [Terraform policy - Enforcement levels](/terraform/policy#enforcement-levels) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Enforcement levels](/terraform/policy#enforcement-levels) for more information.
```

### Workspace and project scope

> You can apply policy sets to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable the following settings to se the scope for your policy sets:
```

- **Project**: All workspaces in specific projects
- **Workspace**: Specific workspaces only
- **Tags**: Workspaces configured with the given tags

### Pin the Terraform version

You can specify the required Terraform version in your policy files:

```hcl
policy {
  terraform_config {
    required_version = ">= 1.15.0"
  }
}
```

> Refer to [Terraform policy - Write policies - The `policy {}` block](/terraform/policy/write/policy-blocks#the-policy--block) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [`policy` block reference](/terraform/policy/reference/policy/policy) for more information.
```
  🤦 when we discussed this structure, we must have missed that the file type is policy, the construct name is policy, and that the product name is policy because that is one gnarly URL.
